File Share Services



Server Message Block (SMB)
  A file sharing service is a type of service that provides, mediates, and monitors the transfer of computer files. Years ago, businesses commonly used only internal services for file sharing, such as SMB, NFS, FTP, TFTP, SFTP, but as cloud adoption grows, most companies now also have third-party cloud services such as Dropbox, Google Drive, OneDrive, SharePoint, or other forms of file storage such as AWS S3, Azure Blob Storage, or Google Cloud Storage. We will be exposed to a mixture of internal and external file-sharing services, and we need to be familiar with them.
  
  This section will focus on internal services, but this may apply to cloud storage synced locally to servers and workstations.

Server Message Block (SMB)
  SMB is commonly used in Windows networks, and we will often find share folders in a Windows network. We can interact with SMB using the GUI, CLI, or tools. Let us cover some common ways of interacting with SMB using Windows & Linux.

Windows
  There are different ways we can interact with a shared folder using Windows, and we will explore a couple of them. On Windows GUI, we can press [WINKEY] + [R] to open the Run dialog box and type the file share location, e.g.: \\192.168.220.129\Finance\
  Suppose the shared folder allows anonymous authentication, or we are authenticated with a user who has privilege over that shared folder. In that case, we will not receive any form of authentication request, and it will display the content of the shared folder.
  If we do not have access, we will receive an authentication request.

  Windows has two command-line shells: the Command shell and PowerShell. Each shell is a software program that provides direct communication between us and the operating system or application, providing an environment to automate IT operations.
  Let's discuss some commands to interact with file share using Command Shell (CMD) and PowerShell. The command dir displays a list of a directory's files and subdirectories.

Windows CMD - DIR
```bash
C:\htb> dir \\192.168.220.129\Finance\

Volume in drive \\192.168.220.129\Finance has no label.
Volume Serial Number is ABCD-EFAA

Directory of \\192.168.220.129\Finance

02/23/2022  11:35 AM    <DIR>          Contracts
               0 File(s)          4,096 bytes
               1 Dir(s)  15,207,469,056 bytes free
```

