# LLMNR & NBT-NS Primer

Attacker giả làm filesever chờ victim mắc bẫy

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4795
Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) and NetBIOS Name Service (NBT-NS) are Microsoft Windows components that serve as alternate methods of host identification that can be used when DNS fails. If a machine attempts to resolve a host but DNS resolution fails, typically, the machine will try to ask all other machines on the local network for the correct host address via LLMNR. LLMNR is based upon the Domain Name System (DNS) format and allows hosts on the same local link to perform name resolution for other hosts. It uses port 5355 over UDP natively. If LLMNR fails, the NBT-NS will be used. NBT-NS identifies systems on a local network by their NetBIOS name. NBT-NS utilizes port 137 over UDP.

## KEY 
The kicker here is that when LLMNR/NBT-NS are used for name resolution, ANY host on the network can reply. This is where we come in with Responder to poison these requests. With network access, we can spoof an authoritative name resolution source ( in this case, a host that's supposed to belong in the network segment ) in the broadcast domain by responding to LLMNR and NBT-NS traffic as if they have an answer for the requesting host. This poisoning effort is done to get the victims to communicate with our system by pretending that our rogue system knows the location of the requested host. If the requested host requires name resolution or authentication actions, we can capture the NetNTLM hash and subject it to an offline brute force attack in an attempt to retrieve the cleartext password. The captured authentication request can also be relayed to access another host or used against a different protocol (such as LDAP) on the same host. LLMNR/NBNS spoofing combined with a lack of SMB signing can often lead to administrative access on hosts within a domain. SMB Relay attacks will be covered in a later module about Lateral Movement.

## Quick Example - LLMNR/NBT-NS Poisoning

Let's walk through a quick example of the attack flow at a very high level:

A host attempts to connect to the print server at \\print01.inlanefreight.local, but accidentally types in \\printer01.inlanefreight.local.
The DNS server responds, stating that this host is unknown.
The host then broadcasts out to the entire local network asking if anyone knows the location of \\printer01.inlanefreight.local.
The attacker (us with Responder running) responds to the host stating that it is the \\printer01.inlanefreight.local that the host is looking for.
The host believes this reply and sends an authentication request to the attacker with a username and NTLMv2 password hash.
This hash can then be cracked offline or used in an SMB Relay attack if the right conditions exist.

# TTPs
We are performing these actions to collect authentication information sent over the network in the form of NTLMv1 and NTLMv2 password hashes. As discussed in the Introduction to Active Directory module, NTLMv1 and NTLMv2 are authentication protocols that utilize the LM or NT hash. We will then take the hash and attempt to crack them offline using tools such as Hashcat or John with the goal of obtaining the account's cleartext password to be used to gain an initial foothold or expand our access within the domain if we capture a password hash for an account with more privileges than an account that we currently possess.

Several tools can be used to attempt LLMNR & NBT-NS poisoning:
| Tool        | Description                                                                 |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Responder   | Responder is a purpose-built tool to poison LLMNR, NBT-NS, and MDNS, with many different functions. |
| Inveigh     | Inveigh is a cross-platform MITM platform that can be used for spoofing and poisoning attacks. |
| Metasploit  | Metasploit has several built-in scanners and spoofing modules made to deal with poisoning attacks. |

This section and the following one will show examples of using Responder and Inveigh to capture password hashes and attempt to crack them offline. We commonly start an internal penetration test from an anonymous position on the client's internal network with a Linux attack host. Tools such as Responder are great for establishing a foothold that we can later expand upon through further enumeration and attacks. Responder is written in Python and typically used on a Linux attack host, though there is a .exe version that works on Windows. Inveigh is written in both C# and PowerShell (considered legacy). Both tools can be used to attack the following protocols:
  LLMNR
  DNS
  MDNS
  NBNS
  DHCP
  ICMP
  HTTP
  HTTPS
  SMB
  LDAP
  WebDAV
  Proxy Auth
  
Responder also has support for:
  MSSQL
  DCE-RPC
  FTP, POP3, IMAP, and SMTP auth

# Responder In Action
Responder is a relatively straightforward tool, but is extremely powerful and has many different functions. In the Initial Enumeration section earlier, we utilized Responder in Analysis (passive) mode. This means it listened for any resolution requests, but did not answer them or send out poisoned packets. We were acting like a fly on the wall, just listening. Now, we will take things a step further and let Responder do what it does best. Let's look at some options available by typing responder -h into our console.
```
naruto3co@htb[/htb]$ responder -h
                                         __
  .----.-----.-----.-----.-----.-----.--|  |.-----.----.
  |   _|  -__|__ --|  _  |  _  |     |  _  ||  -__|   _|
  |__| |_____|_____|   __|_____|__|__|_____||_____|__|
                   |__|

           NBT-NS, LLMNR & MDNS Responder 3.0.6.0

  Author: Laurent Gaffie (laurent.gaffie@gmail.com)
  To kill this script hit CTRL-C

Usage: responder -I eth0 -w -r -f
or:
responder -I eth0 -wrf

Options:
  --version             show program's version number and exit
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -A, --analyze         Analyze mode. This option allows you to see NBT-NS,
                        BROWSER, LLMNR requests without responding.
  -I eth0, --interface=eth0
                        Network interface to use, you can use 'ALL' as a
                        wildcard for all interfaces
  -i 10.0.0.21, --ip=10.0.0.21
                        Local IP to use (only for OSX)
  -e 10.0.0.22, --externalip=10.0.0.22
                        Poison all requests with another IP address than
                        Responder's one.
  -b, --basic           Return a Basic HTTP authentication. Default: NTLM
  -r, --wredir          Enable answers for netbios wredir suffix queries.
                        Answering to wredir will likely break stuff on the
                        network. Default: False
  -d, --NBTNSdomain     Enable answers for netbios domain suffix queries.
                        Answering to domain suffixes will likely break stuff
                        on the network. Default: False
  -f, --fingerprint     This option allows you to fingerprint a host that
                        issued an NBT-NS or LLMNR query.
  -w, --wpad            Start the WPAD rogue proxy server. Default value is
                        False
  -u UPSTREAM_PROXY, --upstream-proxy=UPSTREAM_PROXY
                        Upstream HTTP proxy used by the rogue WPAD Proxy for
                        outgoing requests (format: host:port)
  -F, --ForceWpadAuth   Force NTLM/Basic authentication on wpad.dat file
                        retrieval. This may cause a login prompt. Default:
                        False
  -P, --ProxyAuth       Force NTLM (transparently)/Basic (prompt)
                        authentication for the proxy. WPAD doesn't need to be
                        ON. This option is highly effective when combined with
                        -r. Default: False
  --lm                  Force LM hashing downgrade for Windows XP/2003 and
                        earlier. Default: False
  -v, --verbose         Increase verbosity.
```
As shown earlier in the module, the -A flag puts us into analyze mode, allowing us to see NBT-NS, BROWSER, and LLMNR requests in the environment without poisoning any responses. We must always supply either an interface or an IP. Some common options we'll typically want to use are -wf; this will start the WPAD rogue proxy server, while -f will attempt to fingerprint the remote host operating system and version. We can use the -v flag for increased verbosity if we are running into issues, but this will lead to a lot of additional data printed to the console. Other options such as -F and -P can be used to force NTLM or Basic authentication and force proxy authentication, but may cause a login prompt, so they should be used sparingly. The use of the -w flag utilizes the built-in WPAD proxy server. This can be highly effective, especially in large organizations, because it will capture all HTTP requests by any users that launch Internet Explorer if the browser has Auto-detect settings enabled.

With this configuration shown above, Responder will listen and answer any requests it sees on the wire. If you are successful and manage to capture a hash, Responder will print it out on screen and write it to a log file per host located in the /usr/share/responder/logs directory. Hashes are saved in the format (MODULE_NAME)-(HASH_TYPE)-(CLIENT_IP).txt, and one hash is printed to the console and stored in its associated log file unless -v mode is enabled. For example, a log file may look like SMB-NTLMv2-SSP-172.16.5.25. Hashes are also stored in a SQLite database that can be configured in the Responder.conf config file, typically located in /usr/share/responder unless we clone the Responder repo directly from GitHub.

We must run the tool with sudo privileges or as root and make sure the following ports are available on our attack host for it to function best:







